[Term Entry] Python statsmodels:SARIMAX (#6041)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/statsmodels/terms/sarimax/sarimax.md

SARIMAX is an extended version of [`ARIMA`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/statsmodels/arima) that incorporates seasonal components and the ability to include exogenous variables (external factors influencing the time series). While ARIMA is suitable for non-seasonal data, SARIMAX handles seasonal patterns and can account for additional independent variables, making it more flexible for complex time series forecasting.

## Syntax

```pseudo
from statsmodels.tsa.statespace.sarimax import SARIMAX

model = SARIMAX(endog, exog=None, order=(p, d, q), seasonal_order=(P, D, Q, s), trend=None)
```

- `endog`: The dependent variable (time series data) that the model will analyze and forecast.
- `exog`: External or exogenous variables that influence the dependent variable. Defaults to `None` if no external factors are used.
- `order`: Specifies the non-seasonal ARIMA components in the form `(p, d, q)`, where:
  - `p`: Number of autoregressive terms.
  - `d`: Differencing order to make the series stationary.
  - `q`: Number of moving average terms.

> - `seasonal_order`: Specifies the seasonal components in the form (P, D, Q, s), where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `seasonal_order`: Specifies the seasonal components in the form (`P`, `D`, `Q`, `s`), where:
```

model = SARIMAX(
    df['Value'],
    exog=df['Exog'],
    order=(1, 1, 1),
    seasonal_order=(1, 1, 1, 12)
)
result = model.fit(disp=False)  # Use disp=False to suppress display of the fitting process

# Forecast the next 12 steps
# Create exogenous values for the forecast period (constant for simplicity in this example)
forecast_exog = np.array([5] * 12).reshape(-1, 1)  # Future exogenous values, reshaped for forecasting

# Make the forecast
forecast = result.get_forecast(steps=12, exog=forecast_exog)
forecast_values = forecast.predicted_mean
forecast_ci = forecast.conf_int()

# Plot original data and forecast
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(df['Time'], df['Value'], label="Original Data", marker='o')
plt.plot(
    range(n + 1, n + 13),
    forecast_values,
    label="Forecast",
    color='yellow',
    marker='o'
)
plt.fill_between(
    range(n + 1, n + 13),
    forecast_ci.iloc[:, 0],
    forecast_ci.iloc[:, 1],
    color='orange',
    alpha=0.2,
    label="Confidence Interval"
)
plt.xlabel("Time")
plt.ylabel("Value")
plt.title("SARIMAX Model: Original Data and Forecast")
plt.legend()
plt.grid()
plt.show()
```

The code produces the following output:

> ![ARIMA Model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/sarimax-example.png)

Reviewer: The image description can be more detailed - 

```suggestion
![The plot compares the original data with the forecasted values and includes a shaded confidence interval to show the range of possible future outcomes based on the model.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/sarimax-example.png)
```
